# NAME OF PROJECT
NAMES.
# AUTHOR NAME
TEDDY NGUTU.
## PROJECT DESCRIPTION
MY FIRST NAME GENERATING JAVASCRIPT WEBSITE.
## LINK TO LIVE SITE
https://megatronted.github.io/NAMES/
### LINK DESCRIPTION.
This app is systematic from the Birth date to the gender input in that order.The user will interract with it easily as it is straight forward, informative and to the point. It is also Aesthetically pleasing. "The UI is inviting" -Agatha Butterfly Lubulellah. This app includes ;

A form that allows the user to key in the date, month and year in numerals.(with validation)
A radio checkbox that allows the user to select their radiogender(with validation)
A submit button for results.
#### BREF HISTORY.
The Akan people of Ghana have concepts of ethnicity and social identity which are similar to those found in the Mediterranean world, which find expression in the issues addressed in the letter to the Hebrews. This similarity makes the reading of Hebrews in light of Akan ethnicity and social identity possible, giving one the expected meaning from the perspective of those concepts as within the original context of the audience. This article therefore discusses some theories on ethnicity and social identity as well as the Akan people of Ghana and their concepts of ethnicity and social identity. It further explains the social context of the letter of Hebrews against which Hebrews is then read in light of Akan ethnicity and social identity. The focus of this reading is on how the ethnic identity of the readers presented in Hebrews enhances the social identity of the readers and provides the means by which the author's appeal to his readers for their faithfulness to God becomes meaningful and urgent.
##### SET-UP OF THE PROGRAM.
->Clone this repo to your desktop
->Run this in your terminal "git remove set-url" if you wish to have it into your repository
->Create a directory for this project
->Run "atom ." in you terminal No need to install dependencies or run a server.This code depends on google fonts.
###### BEHAVIOUR DRIVEN DEVELOPMENT.
This app is systematic from the Birth date to the gender input in that order.The user will interract with it easily as it is straight forward, informative and to the point. It is also Aesthetically pleasing. "The UI is inviting" -Agatha Butterfly Lubulellah. This app includes ;
-A form that allows the user to key in the date, month and year in numerals.(with validation.)
-A radio checkbox that allows the user to select their radiogender.(with validation.)
-A submit button for results.
### TECHNOLOGICAL USE.
Used HTML to create forms and radio checkbox.Used also style.css to style my HTML content, JavaScript for functionality.
## AKAN ARTICLES.
With the lens of Akan concept of ethnicity, the author is seen to be arguing in familiar kinship terms that express close family relationships as within the basic family unit headed by the father. The exception is the distinctive Christian and Jewish thought in the author's argument that must be understood on their own terms and which usually point to the superiority of the Christian privilege. If the believers' Brother is glorified at the right hand of God and brings many sons and daughters to glory, the Akan experience of sharing the honour of a family member as well as joining the honoured ancestors in death provides a useful lens to appreciate what Hebrews is saying. The Akan understanding of nimdefo gives meaning to the author's designation of believers as enlightened people that helps him to demand the right conduct from his readers as is expected of them. The Akan understanding of ntetee [training] as difficult but necessary for children who are potential heirs provides a good way to understand the suffering of the readers as God's straining of his legitimate children who are to inherit salvation and all the benefits of God. The role of otwafo in Akan gives insight into the role of Christ described as the author and perfecter of faith so that Christ does not only cut the path but also lead and make his final designation that of the believers too. When the author's statements about the religious achievements for the believers are considered against Akan religious pursuit for wellbeing of the family, the ethnic significance of the author's statement is made clear. The Akan proverb that spells out the responsibility of adult children towards their parents particularly speaks to the author's appeal for the audience not to abandon their Father (God) after all he has done for them and stresses the evil of doing otherwise. Names and language used by Akans to describe themselves positively and others negatively offer insight into Hebrews' similar use of names and language. Similar to Akan use of common historical memory to stir up virtues and right conduct in people is Hebrews' use of the same, offering the Akan believer a familiar perspective on the author's use of historical memory.Almost all the important aspects of the history and culture of the Akan people of Ghana have been recorded by writers such as Rattray (1929), Busia (1954), Meyerowitz (1958), Danquah (1968), Fortes (1975), Opoku (1977), Appiah (1992), Gyekye (1996), Buah (1998), Sarpong (2002), Nkansah-Kyeremanteng (2010) and Awinongya (2013). While a repetition of their work is unnecessary, this study requires a concise introduction of the Akan people and their concepts of ethnicity and social identity. These concepts are scattered in many works on the Akan people and has not yet been put together in writing as the social identity of the Akan people.

Akan is the largest ethnic group in Ghana, making up 47.3% of the population of Ghana (Ghana Statistical Service 2013:61). They comprise the Bono, Asante, Adanse, Twifo, Asen, Fante, Akuapem, Akyem, Akwamu, Kwahu, Sehwi, Awowin, Nzima and Ahanta (Buah 1998:8). The name Akan, according to Danquah (1968:198), means 'foremost, genuine' (from kan, first,) and is the corrupted form of Akane or Akana, corrupted by the early Arabs of the Sudan in Ghana and the early Europeans who visited the coast of West Africa in Guinea. The best known representatives of the Akan race are the Ashanti, Fanti, Akim, Akuapim, Assin and several of the present Twi-speaking races of the Gold Coast (Danquah 1968:198).Akans have a rich variety of dialects which are related and shared in various degrees of vocabulary and other linguistic elements. These dialects which are mutually intelligible include Asante, Akuapen, Akwamu, Fante, Akyem, Agona, Assin, Denkyira, Twifo, Wassaw, Kwahu, Bron and Buem (Agyekum 2006:206). The use by some scholars of the name Akan, to refer to the languages spoken by various groups, coincides more or less with the ethnographic use of the name Akan (Dolphyne n.d.:1, 2). Akan is spoken as a native language in 6 of the 10 regions in Ghana, namely in the Ashanti, Eastern, Western, Central and the Brong Ahafo Regions (Agyekum 2006:206).

There is hardly any consensus on the origin of the Akan people. Some of the suggestions hold that the Akans may have come from some parts the Sudan, the old Mali Empire, Burkina Faso and even from Mesopotamia where they had close connection with Israel. The inclination of majority of scholars is towards the southern part of the Saharan region, whether identified with the old Ghana or Mali Empires.There is, however, greater agreement that it was in the southern part of West African forest region that the ethnogenesis of the various Akan groups took place.
# LICENSE.
This project is licensed under the terms of the MIT license. Copyright (c) 2019 MegatronTed.

